Welcome back in this lecture we're going to discuss the dataset before we actually get started.
Convolutional neural networks and carers.
I want to quickly take a brief moment to really understand this classical data set.
And if you've ever had any other course or even read a book on deep learning you've probably already
encountered this dataset before it's super famous in the field especially in convolutional neural networks
and deep learning.
I want to quickly cover some basics about it since we're going to be using really similar data concepts
specifically the way we organize these datasets into for they missional arrays.
So it's the reason that idea quite frequently throughout the course I wanted to briefly cover that OK.
Now for this particular dataset Fortunately it's really easy to access.
Curious use uploader with a built in function and carers and it has 60000 training images and 10000
test images right off the bat you can tell that it's a huge data set.
And the smallest dataset in case you're not familiar with it it contains handwritten single digits from
0 to 9.
So here we see some examples of all the different ways people draw zeros ones twos threes and so on.
Now as you may imagine a single digit image can be represented as an array so specifically in this dataset
the arrays are 28 by 28 and they're just pixels where the value of 0 represents white and the value
of 1 represents black.
So these values are grayscale meaning we only have a single color channel and also important to note
here is that it's been standardized or normalized so you can see all the values fall between 0 and 1
instead of values from 0 to 255.
That's really going to help our network learn on this particular sorts of data sets.
So often when we're working with image data we will normalize things to fall between 0 and 1.
This dataset already has that step for us.
Now we can think of the entire group of 60000 images or for the test sets 10000 images as a for them.
Array and it's fourth dimension is because we have the dimension for all the images the dimension for
the color channel.
In this case it's one dimension for the x and y 28.
So we have this really large for that missional array.
And so it's going to for mentions of 60000 28 by 28 and then 1.
So we have the samples the X and the Y and then number of color channels.
In this case we have just a single color channel because it's grayscale but for color images.
That last image and value would be three because we'd have one value for red one value for green and
one for blue.
All standardized between 0 and 1.
Now for the actual labels we're going to use something known as one hot encoding.
This means that instead of having categorical labels such as strings of one to et cetera will have a
single array.
For each image now the original labels when you upload and Karris they're actually given as a list of
numbers.
So it's the very first image is a drawing of the number five then its corresponding label is just the
digit 5.
And what we did do is we need to convert that to 100 coding.
Again this transformation is actually really easily done of course.
But I want to make sure that we understand what's happening behind the scenes.
So what happens is the label is represented based off the index position and the label array the corresponding
label will be a one at the index location and zero everywhere else.
For example if you happen to have a drawn digit A for that it would have this particular label array.
Notice the index for.
So 0 1 2 3 4.
That is one hot and coded to be a one.
And the reason we use this one hot in coding is because it works really well with a single layer output
where we have 10 neurons and then each of them is triggered to fire off a sigmoid to either 0 or 1.
Now as a result the labels for the training data ends up being a really large to the array.
So we end up having 60000 by 10 because each of those labels is now an array of 10.
And in case this image isn't really clear when we actually see it in.
It looks something like this.
So here's our white train for instance and we have all these one hot encodings.
So that means if you look at the second row that number its label is 0 because it's one encoded at one
index 0.
And for some of these other ones it deleted.
Well it has an ellipses for the middle value so we can't quite tell.
OK so now we understand the end the state is set and one hand-coding Let's apply our new knowledge of
convolutional neural networks with carers on this dataset.
Let's get started.
I'll see you at the next lecture.